Terraform dynamic Blocks : using loops, 

Karpenter vs EKS Cluster auto scaling:
  Karpenter offers faster scaling and flexibility in instance types, but with less control over placement and deprovisioning. 
  Cluster Autoscaler provides more granular control and broader cloud support, but with slightly slower scaling.

Event driven architecture: 
  An event-driven architecture uses events to trigger and communicate between decoupled services and is common in modern applications built with microservices. An event is a change in state, or an update, like an item being placed in a shopping cart on an e-commerce website.
  
AWS glue
  AWS Glue is a fully managed extract, transform, and load (ETL) service that helps you to prepare and load your data for analytics.
  AWS Glue Data Quality automates data quality rule creation, management, and monitoring to help ensure high quality data across your data lakes and pipelines. 

  
AWS Landing Zone
Control Tower
Aws config
AWS Security & Complience
  
EMR
Ancible
Elasticsearch
Transitgatway
Including A/B, Canary, Blue/Green deployment patterns.
Control tower
Package manager
service mesh
SAM Template
GitLab
tcp vs udp
layer caching vs layer
DataDog
Splunk
Ansible 
GitHub Copilot - Your AI pair programmer in vs code
ArgoCD


AWS
1. EC2 needs access to s3, how do you make sure EC2 has required permissions?	
2. Why do we use trust relationship in IAM role.	
3. How do you give access to particular objects in s3.	
4. What is the difference between internet gateway and NAT gateway	
5. Why do we use VPC endpoints?	
Terraform		
1. What is the difference between Terraform and Ansible	
2	How do you destroy specific resource in terraform	
3	How to use resources that are created manually in terraform	
4	What is the purpose of modules in terraform	
Kubernetes	
1	What is the different services in Kubernetes	
2	What is the useful for Daemonset	
3	If pod is not in running state , how do you check the logs	
4	How do you check DB connection from Kubernetes cluster	
5	What is path based routing in kubernetes?


cmrf contact number
medicover hospital, nellore 
Satish 
c/o (8008104200)