A landing zone is a well-architected, multi-account AWS environment based on security and compliance best practices. AWS Control Tower automates the setup of a new landing zone using best-practices blueprints for identity, federated access, and account structure.

AWS Control Tower
	A service control console that helps IT admins manage security compliance and ensure best practices. It automates the creation of landing zones, which are multi-account environments based on best practices.

AWS landing zone
	A multi-account environment that serves as a template for new user profiles, accounts, and environments. It's especially useful for organizations that are migrating to the cloud or revamping DevOps processes.

AWS Control Tower creates accounts
	When you set up a landing zone, AWS Control Tower creates two accounts in your organization: an audit account and a logging account. These accounts record actions taken by your team. 
The Root
	The Root is a container for the management account, and for all OUs and accounts in your organization. You can't delete the Root, and you can't govern enrolled accounts at the Root level. 
Account types
	Production accounts control how your services are maintained, deployed, and developed. Sandbox accounts are used for developers to try out AWS cloud services in a controlled environment. Workload accounts handle most of your production and non-production workloads.

Account Vending Machine	
	As part of the account provisioning process, the Account Vending Machine should grant the relevant developers access to the new accounts via the authentication and authorization system in your account baselines
		- Create new accounts in AWS Organization with standard baselines and guardrails 
		- Allow users to rapidly request new accounts and other changes 
		- Enforce controls across the estate, such as default account guardrails and network connectivity

AWS Account Factory
	- Also known as an AVM, this tool is an abstraction built on top of AWS Service Catalog products. It can: 
	- Create pre-approved baselines and configuration options 
	- Provision new accounts 
	- Automate the application of controls and policies to accounts 
	- Respond to account request Terraform configurations
	
AWS Account Factory and AWS Account Vending Machine (AVM) are both tools that can create and provision AWS accounts:


Service Control Policies
	It is orgainzation policy that you can manage permisions in your orgainzation. 
	It can be applied to account/ou level
	to control IAM user/roles
    Flow: Explicit Deny ---> SCP ---> Permission boundries ---> IAM policy
	SCP never grant permission
	SCP can be attached to account or OU levels
	SCP has highest level of priority
	SCP default policy is FullAccess, which is not deny anything
	SCP supports conditions
	